# Annual Percentage Rate (APR)
- Refers to the yearly interest generated by a sum that's borrowed. Usually expressed as a percentage represents the full cost of a loan, or income earned in an investment. This is interest rate and any fees or additional cost associated with the transaction, but doesn't take compounding into account.

- Takeaway: Used to give consumers a bottom-line number they can use to compare amongst other lenders.
- Calculation: APR = Total annual interest and fees DIVIDED BY average balance owed. Where average balance owed is the principal DIVIDED BY number of days in the loan term.

# Factors that affect cost of borrowing:
1. Interest rate: Percentage of the amount you borrow that you pay as interest/extra. Higher the rate, the more you pay.
2. Principal: Initial amount you borrow. The higher the principal, the more interest you'll pay.
3. Term: The timeframe you pay the laon in. The longer the timeframe, the more interest you'll pay.

# Types of APR:
1. Nominal APR: Doesn't account for compound interest. Typically listed on loan application and statements.
2. Effective APR: Accounts for compound interest, and shows you actual interest cost.

# Additional APR Terminology:
1. Fixed interest rate: Rate stays constant for entire loan term.
2. Variable interest rate: Rate can change based on market conditions.
3. Grace period: Amount of time given to borrower to make payments so that they aren't considered late. In the case of credit cards, it's the time before interest is added to your balance.
4. Prepayment penalties: Fees that could be charged if you pay off a loan earlier than expected.



# APR Exercises:
- Loan A:
1. Monthly Interest: 7.45%
2. APR: 7.7%
3. Loan term: 5 years
4. Grace Period: 45 days
- Loan B:
1. Monthly Interest: 7.25%
2. APR: 7.5%
3. Loan term: 3 years
4. Grace Period: 30 days
- Loan B is the better deal. Remember APR shows the true cost of borrowing, it takes into account the loan term as well so the 2 year difference is considered when making the percentage. Comparing, the APR for Loan B is less, and the lower the APR the lower the total cost of the loan. So Loan B is the better deal.